blog: Using AWS remotes in DVC (#3519)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2022-05-17-aws-remotes-in-dvc.md

table. Note that you won’t be able to access your secret key again at this
point. You would need to make a new set of credentials if you don’t have it.

![successfully created AWS access credentials](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/credentials.png)

That’s it for setting up your bucket and getting the credentials you need! Now
let’s add DVC to our demo repo and set up the remote.

## Set up a DVC project

First, add DVC as a requirement to your project with the following installation
command:

`$ pip install 'dvc[s3]'`

Then you can initialize DVC in your own project with the following command:

`$ dvc init`

This will add all of the DVC internals needed to start versioning your data and
tracking experiments. Now we need to set up the remote to connect our project
data stored in AWS to the DVC repo.

### Create a default remote

Now we can add a default to the project with the following command:

`$ dvc remote add -d bikes s3://updatedbikedata/train/`

This creates a default remote called `bikes` that connects to the
`updatedbikedata` bucket we made earlier and it references a folder inside this
bucket called `train` which is where the training data for the model will be

> stored.

Reviewer: Is there a reason to use a folder inside the bucket instead of the bucket directly? 

Could be that beginners might get confused thinking that they need to create a folder inside the bucket?

Author: That's a good point. I'll update this to just upload to the bucket directly.

### Add AWS credentials

In order for DVC to be able to push and pull data from the remote, you need to
have valid AWS credentials.

If you are using the AWS CLI already, it’s likely that your credentials are

> available through the profiles. You can check that out

Reviewer: Not sure about the wording here. Maybe something more in the line with the [docs](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote/add#amazon-s3):

> By default, DVC authenticates using your AWS CLI [configuration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html) (if set)

[here in the AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html).

If you run into issues with the credentials, you can manually add them with the

> following commands:

Reviewer: More than running into issues, we could say something like "If you want to use a different authentication method, you can use `dvc remote modify`:"

And add link to corresponding docs: https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote/modify#amazon-s3

`$ dvc remote modify --local bikes access_key_id 'mykey'`

`$ dvc remote modify --local bikes secret_access_key 'mysecret'`

### Push and pull data with DVC

Now you can push data from your local machine to the AWS remote! First, add the
data you want DVC to track with the following command:

`$ dvc add data`

This will allow DVC to track the entire `data` directory so it will note when
any changes are made. Then you can push that data to your AWS remote with this
command:

> `$ dvc push`

Reviewer: How DVC stores the data in the remote is a common question. Maybe we could show how the uploaded data looks in the AWS UI, and potentially add a link to https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/push#example-what-happens-in-the-cache .

Reviewer 2: Other relevant content related to this: https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/internal-files#structure-of-the-cache-directory

---
title: Using AWS Remotes in DVC
date: 2022-05-17
description: >
  We're going to set up an AWS S3 remote in a DVC project.
descriptionLong: >
  It can be tricky setting up a remote to handle data versioning in DVC so we're

>   going to go through a tutorial for doing this with AWS.

Reviewer 2: Its' true that it can get tricky in some edge scenarios but here we probably mean something like "Setting up remote storage for DVC projects is a popular need" or "There's many ways to setup remote storage for DVC projects so let's look at an example..." or something like that? More positive, less scary.

Also is this about setting up and using remote storage or about data versioning? Or if both what's the connection? I think that if it's beginners content, everything should be very clear and explicit.

Reviewer 2: > is this about setting up and using remote storage or about data versioning?

After reading the content I see its about the former. Probably no need to mention versioning here then? Could be confusing.

Author: Let me know what you think about the wording now!

Reviewer 2: Looks good, thanks!

picture: 2022-05-17/aws-in-dvc.png
pictureComment: Using AWS Remotes in DVC
author: milecia_mcgregor
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/preventing-stale-models-in-production/1137
tags:
  - MLOps
  - DVC
  - Git
  - DVC Remotes
  - Collaboration
---

When you’re working on a data science project that has huge datasets, it’s
common to store them in cloud storage. You’ll also be working with different
versions of the same datasets to train a model, so it’s crucial to have a tool

> that enables you to do this quickly and easily. That’s why we’re going to do a

Reviewer 2: to do this -> to do what?

Author: Should be clarified now.

quick walkthrough of how to set up a remote in an AWS S3 bucket and handle data

> versioning with [DVC](https://dvc.org/doc).

Reviewer 2: 💅🏼 Not sure what's your practice in blogs but as-is it will show an "external" link (special icon, opens in new window), I think. Or do this for a regular (internal) link:

```suggestion
versioning with [DVC](/doc).
```

There's a few other instances of https://dvc.org/... links

We’ll start by creating a new S3 bucket in our AWS account, then we’ll show how
you can add DVC to your project, and finally, we’ll make updates to the dataset

> with DVC commands. We’ll be working with

Reviewer 2: > We’ll start by creating a new S3 bucket...
finally, we’ll make updates to the dataset...

This is the same as the last sentence in the previous paragraph, I think? If so then it's a bit repetitive. Just thinking about keeping the intro short & sweet.

[this repo](https://github.com/iterative/stale-model-example) if you want an
example to play with. By the time you finish, you should be able to create this

> setup for any ML project using an AWS remote.

Reviewer 2: This could be a note or [admonition](https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/issues/3382) (visually separated from the main text of the intro).

Also, ML -> machine learning (for SEO)

![newly created S3 bucket in AWS](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/created_bucket.png)

### Get your credentials

Now that the S3 bucket is ready, we need the `access_key_id` and
`secret_access_key` from AWS in order to connect to our project. You can create
these keys in your Identity and Access Management settings. Go to your security
credentials and select the `Access keys` section. Then click the
`Create New Access Key` button. This will generate a new set of keys for you so
make sure you download this file to get your secret access key.

![make AWS access credentials](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/make_credentials.png)

Once you’ve downloaded the credentials, you should see the access key ID in the
table. Note that you won’t be able to access your secret key again at this
point. You would need to make a new set of credentials if you don’t have it.

![successfully created AWS access credentials](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/credentials.png)

That’s it for setting up your bucket and getting the credentials you need! Now
let’s add DVC to our demo repo and set up the remote.

## Set up a DVC project

First, add DVC as a requirement to your project with the following installation
command:

> `$ pip install 'dvc[s3]'`

Reviewer 2: Should all these be fenced code blocks? Easier for copy/paste

````suggestion
```dvc
$ pip install 'dvc[s3]'
```
````

have valid AWS credentials.

By default, DVC authenticates using your AWS CLI configuration, if it has been
set. You can check that out
[here in the AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html).

If you want to
[use a different authentication method](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote/modify#amazon-s3)
or if you run into issues with the credentials, you can manually add them with
the following commands:

`$ dvc remote modify --local bikes access_key_id 'mykey'`

`$ dvc remote modify --local bikes secret_access_key 'mysecret'`

### Push and pull data with DVC

Now you can push data from your local machine to the AWS remote! First, add the
data you want DVC to track with the following command:

`$ dvc add data`

This will allow DVC to track the entire `data` directory so it will note when
any changes are made. Then you can push that data to your AWS remote with this
command:

`$ dvc push`

If you're curious about how DVC stores data in the remote, you can learn more in
[the docs here](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/push#example-what-happens-in-the-cache).
Here's what it might look like in your AWS bucket.

> ![data in AWS bucket](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/aws_bucket.png)

Reviewer 2: Hmmm that example talks about the cache, which hasn't been mentioned at all in this blog post. Not sure a first reader would get the connection there.

> p.s. that image file doesn't exist yet.

Author: Let me know how the change sounds.

Reviewer 2: Thanks. It's def. better but still the mention of the cache seems to come from nowhere. What local cache? What is it? How does it relate to remote storage? Instead of having to explain all this we could probably avoid mentioning caching altogether (unless you'd prefer to introduce that concept much earlier).

Idea:

> If you're curious about how data storage is structured in DVC, you can learn more in [here].

Also, I think the [2nd link](https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/internal-files#structure-of-the-cache-directory) is better. The cmd ref example seems to assume you've read all the reference first.

Then if you move to a different machine or someone else needs to use that data,
it can be accessed by connecting to the remote and running:

> `$ dvc pull`

Reviewer 2: Key detail missing I think: That's after cloning or pulling the same repo, not just from any other machine.

Author: @daavoo I think I'll leave `dvc get` out since it seems more directed towards getting models and this post is just about the data.

`secret_access_key` from AWS in order to connect to our project. You can create
these keys in your Identity and Access Management settings. Go to your security
credentials and select the `Access keys` section. Then click the
`Create New Access Key` button. This will generate a new set of keys for you so
make sure you download this file to get your secret access key.

![make AWS access credentials](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/make_credentials.png)

Once you’ve downloaded the credentials, you should see the access key ID in the
table. Note that you won’t be able to access your secret key again at this
point. You would need to make a new set of credentials if you don’t have it.

![successfully created AWS access credentials](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/credentials.png)

That’s it for setting up your bucket and getting the credentials you need! Now
let’s add DVC to our demo repo and set up the remote.

## Set up a DVC project

First, add DVC as a requirement to your project with the following installation
command:

```dvc
$ pip install 'dvc[s3]'
```

Then you can initialize DVC in your own project with the following command:

> `$ dvc init`

Reviewer 2: Bunch of these still need fenced `dvc` code blocks 🙂

or if you run into issues with the credentials, you can manually add them with
the following commands:

`$ dvc remote modify --local bikes access_key_id 'mykey'`

`$ dvc remote modify --local bikes secret_access_key 'mysecret'`

### Push and pull data with DVC

Now you can push data from your local machine to the AWS remote! First, add the
data you want DVC to track with the following command:

`$ dvc add data`

This will allow DVC to track the entire `data` directory so it will note when
any changes are made. Then you can push that data to your AWS remote with this
command:

`$ dvc push`

If you're curious about how DVC works with data from your local cache in the
remote, you can learn more in
[the docs here](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/push#example-what-happens-in-the-cache).
You can also learn more about the
[structure of the cache directory here](https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/internal-files#structure-of-the-cache-directory).
Here's what the data might look like in your AWS bucket.

![data in AWS bucket](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/aws_bucket.png)

Then if you move to a different machine or someone else needs to use that data,

> it can be accessed by cloning the project repo, connecting to the remote, and
> running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it can be accessed by cloning (or pulling) the repo and running:
```

Instead of the "connecting to the remote" part maybe a note after the sample block mentioning authentication has to be setup locally in each machine (link to **Add AWS credentials**?)

---

> title: Using AWS Remotes in DVC

Reviewer 3: In the title, description, and intro, should we assume users are familiar with the concept of "remotes"? Would it better to call it something like "Syncing Data to AWS S3"?

Author: I like that! It's probably better for SEO too.

date: 2022-05-17
description: >
  We're going to set up an AWS S3 remote in a DVC project.
descriptionLong: >
  Setting up a remote to make data versioning easier with DVC is a common need
  so we're going to go through a tutorial for doing this with AWS.
picture: 2022-05-17/aws-in-dvc.png
pictureComment: Using AWS Remotes in DVC
author: milecia_mcgregor
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/preventing-stale-models-in-production/1137
tags:
  - MLOps
  - DVC
  - Git
  - DVC Remotes
  - Collaboration
---

When you’re working on a data science project that has huge datasets, it’s
common to store them in cloud storage. You’ll also be working with different
versions of the same datasets to train a model, so it’s crucial to have a tool
that enables you to switch between datasets quickly and easily. That’s why we’re
going to do a quick walkthrough of how to set up a remote in an AWS S3 bucket
and handle data versioning with [DVC](https://dvc.org/doc).

We’ll start by creating a new S3 bucket in our AWS account, then we’ll show how
you can add DVC to your project. We’ll be working with
[this repo](https://github.com/iterative/stale-model-example) if you want an
example to play with.

> <admon type="info">
> By the time you finish, you should be able to create this
> setup for any machine learning project using an AWS remote.
> </admon>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<admon type="info">

By the time you finish, you should be able to create this
setup for any machine learning project using an AWS remote.

</admon>
```

That’s it for setting up your bucket and getting the credentials you need! Now
let’s add DVC to our demo repo and set up the remote.

## Set up a DVC project

First, add DVC as a requirement to your project with the following installation
command:

```dvc
$ pip install 'dvc[s3]'
```

Then you can initialize DVC in your own project with the following command:

```dvc
$ dvc init
```

This will add all of the DVC internals needed to start versioning your data and
tracking experiments. Now we need to set up the remote to connect our project
data stored in AWS to the DVC repo.

### Create a default remote

Now we can add a default to the project with the following command:

```dvc
$ dvc remote add -d bikes s3://updatedbikedata
```

This creates a default remote called `bikes` that connects to the
`updatedbikedata` bucket we made earlier which is where the training data for
the model will be stored.

### Add AWS credentials

In order for DVC to be able to push and pull data from the remote, you need to
have valid AWS credentials.

By default, DVC authenticates using your AWS CLI configuration, if it has been
set. You can check that out

> [here in the AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html).

Reviewer 3: Should we include an example of configuring via CLI?

If you want to
[use a different authentication method](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote/modify#amazon-s3)
or if you run into issues with the credentials, you can manually add them with
the following commands:

```dvc
$ dvc remote modify --local bikes access_key_id 'mykey'
```

```dvc
$ dvc remote modify --local bikes secret_access_key 'mysecret'

> ```

Reviewer 3: Do we ever use hidden sections or offset text within a blog post? It seems like it might be useful to indicate that these steps aren't necessary to follow along.

Reviewer 2: BTW no need for 2 separate blocks
````suggestion
If you want to
[use a different authentication method](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/remote/modify#amazon-s3)
or if you run into issues with the credentials, you can manually add them with
the following commands:

```dvc
$ dvc remote modify --local bikes access_key_id 'mykey'
$ dvc remote modify --local bikes secret_access_key 'mysecret'
```
````

Author: @dberenbaum We haven't done a hidden section in the blog before. It looks like the styles aren't the same as in the docs so I'll leave it out.

<img width="795" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-17 at 09 04 15" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47196133/168829886-e2b4b845-404b-4454-b37e-1555d36a745e.png">

### Push and pull data with DVC

Now you can push data from your local machine to the AWS remote! First, add the
data you want DVC to track with the following command:

```dvc
$ dvc add data
```

This will allow DVC to track the entire `data` directory so it will note when
any changes are made. Then you can push that data to your AWS remote with this
command:

```dvc
$ dvc push
```

Here's what the data might look like in your AWS bucket.

![data in AWS bucket](/uploads/images/2022-05-17/aws_bucket.png)

Then if you move to a different machine or someone else needs to use that data,
it can be accessed by cloning or forking the project repo and running:

```dvc
$ dvc pull
```

This will get any data from your remote and download it to your local machine.

> <admon type="info">
> Authentication has to be setup locally on any machine you need to pull or push data from.
> </admon>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<admon type="info">

Authentication has to be setup locally on any machine you need to pull or push data from.

</admon>
```
